---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Resolutions"
date:   2018-01-01 21:35:00 -0500
categories: personal
---
As I've gotten older, I've become pretty cold towards resolutions. They seemed like a waste of time as I never put in any effort past the first week to keep them. After reading a bunch of self-help garbage, one thing I kept noticing was the act of making goals and continuing to revisit them each month. I figured now would be as good a time as any to give this a try.

My plan is to revisit this list at the start of each month and re-evaluate my goals. Hopefully this will help me keep up as the year goes on.

## My 2018 Resolutions/Goals
1. Gain ~25lbs
   * I've suffered with weight issues for my entire adult life. This is something that I've been trying to do for the last 4 or 5 years. As soon as I start making progress, I seem to get sit and loose all of the weight I gained.
   * End goal would be to hit ~155lbs by the end of the year. That's only .5lbs a week! Easy!
2. Write more
   * I used to love writing, but I fell off that horse in the stress of work. The goal would be to work on my writing skills again through writing entries here on this blog.
3. Learn one thing every day
   * This was the original intention of this blog: to learn one new item of information every day and report on it.
   * This could be anything; it doesn't have to be tech or code related. Just learn something new!
4. Work on a collaborative project
   * Up until now I've worked solo on all of my projects. I'd really like to work through a project/problem with someone else. This type of group development experience would be great to have (and a bonus resume item).
5. Create a pypy package
   * All of the python projects I've completed have been small personal projects. I'd love to create something that is useful enough to publish to the pypy repo as a complete package.
6. Create a PWA project
   * Progressive Web Apps seem super neat. Now that I have experience creating web pages on my own, I'd love to try my hand at creating a PWA. I think a previous project of mine would be great to use as a base for this.
7. Find a way to relax
   * I used to have gaming as my main hobby, but I hardly play at all anymore. This has led to some major internal issues where I'm no longer sure what my hobbies are, what I find fun, how to relax, etc.
   * Goal would be to end the year practicing some activity that brings me enjoyment and relief
8. Contribute to an open source project
   * Even if it's just submitting a bug or feedback, I want to start contributing to some opensource project in my free time
9. Take things less personally
   * I need to work on letting things go. I bottle things up for too long and it eats away from me.
   * This applies to both things in and out of the workplace.
10. Stop wasting time
   * I spend way too much time watching "filler", like twitch streams. Try watching something else with more value.
   * Stop reading politics. It's been almost like a guilty pleasure for so many months now, following the train wreck. And nothing positive has come from it. Cut it out.

See you in a month when I'm back to revist all of these once again!